# Pairs-Trading
-An approach that takes advantage of the mispricing between 2 or more co-moving assets, by taking the long position in one (many) and shorting the other(s), betting that the relationship will hold and that the relationship will hold and that prices will converge.
-Pairs trading is a subset of statistical arbitrage.
	-Statistical arbitrage: entails factor investing and mean reverting portfolio. 
-Statistical arbitrage and pairs trading try to solve the problem, approximating if the asset is truly over and undervalued, using price relativity.

## 3 Steps to building a pairs trading strategy
1. Pairs selecting: e.g. using cointegration, correlation, Kendall Tau correlation
2. Spread modelling: Model the spread in a way that maximises mean reversion (a financial theory that states that an asset's price will tend to converge to the average price over time) and ensures market neutrality of the strategy
3. Trading rules: Established based on the type of utilised approach and the spread behaviour

## Different types of pairs trading strategies 
### Cointegration approach
-Pairs selection process is conducted by cointegration, technique used to find a possible correlation between time series processes in the long term, tests to identify co-moving assets.
-Trading signals are generated by using simple rules, mostly generated by threshold rules (an instruction given to the system on what to do once a certain limit has been reached).
### Copula approach
-Allows you to study the deeper relationship between the different legs of the trade and enables you to analyse the dependency structure from multiple random variables.
-Allows you to work with multiple assets rather than only working with a single pair.
-The trading rules selection process usually relies on the concept of conditional probability.
-The date fitting process for copulas is usually divide into 2 assets
	1. Translating marginal data into quantiles
 	2. Fitting a copula with the following quantities

